Let's just dump my thought process into a file because I probably need to change a bunch of shit.
First of all I really hate Java I cannot stress this enough and I don't want to mess with their "classy" GUI bullcrap.
I thought doing it with ASCII would be so much easier but I end up having to do shitty workarounds and not matching my expectations.
So the thing is first of all the programm isn't running?! I don't know why probably to do with the shitty "package" declarations.
[X] Get the program fixed
Then my game makes no total sense. We need to have eighter
A: multiple players
B: a bot
So we should implement those both. How should this be handled? In the start menu we should have an option for either singleplayer or multiplayer.
We should also have a screen to select the bot difficulty. This should be somehow stored in the game state.
HOW SHOULD WE HANDLE MULTIPLAYER?
A: local
B: network
I am fucking scared of any networking in Java. I am scared. So we must do local multiplayer but how would you do a game in local multiplayer when there is only one screen? I guess we could just have a split screen. That would not work this is battleship that would give away all the information. MULTIPLAYER IS IMPOSSIBLE. I NEED TO HAVE NETWORKING I DONT WANT TO HAVE NETWORKING! Ok so we determined solution A is impossible. So we need to have networking. I am scared of networking. I don't want to do networking. I don't know how to do networking. I don't want to learn how. I guess I will have to figure it out eventually… Then there are two solutions for networking:
A: client server model with P2P connections
 -- Will the network even allow this? I don't know. 
B: programming a seperate hosted server and client
 -- Programming a server in Java is fucking hard.
Is there a java easy way to do P2P connections? no.

Fuck mutiplayer actually then. We will not do multiplayer right now.

Here is a good idea. Let's start by hiding the compilation bullshit
[X] Get rid of the hiding bullshit
Good shit.

Ok now that we have a clearer goal we need to think about bots.
Let's use a strategy pattern to define different bot behaviors. We can create an interface for the bot and implement various strategies for different difficulty levels.
I hope this works in Java.

[ ] I should write a fucking formatter in python for my weird txt UML diagrams

